Okay.
So in this lesson, I want to show you the power of components.
The primary benefit of components is reusability by being able to pack away a chunk of HTML, JavaScript
and CSS into a separate file, we create almost like a reusable puzzle piece that we can use over and
over again.
In addition, we can customize that sort of piece of the user interface ever so slightly to enable a
lot of reusability and flexibility.
So let me give you an example.
On the right hand side here.
I have our view app in the browser and here I have my app component.
You'll notice that our app component starts with this image tag and that is this V logo right here.
And then the rest of the content here, this whole section right here is the content of our Hello World
component.
So our app component is rendering the Helloworld component, which is why this content appears right
here.
Now the beautiful part about components is we can reuse them as often as we like.
So what I'm going to do here is copy line number three and paste it down below.
So now I'm going to render two Helloworld components right after each other.
And as soon as I save this, we're going to see the changes in the browser and exactly as we'd expect.
We now see a second section of this page, which is the second rendering of the Helloworld component
right here.
Right.
It's the exact same component, but we're rendering it twice in a row and thus we don't have to worry
about the complexities of this HTML, CSS in JavaScript because it is all packaged away in its own independent
helloworld component.
It sort of serves the exact same purpose as a function does in JavaScript.
A function is almost like a reusable procedure that we can use and we can customize ever so slightly
with things like arguments, right?
But the whole purpose of the function is to isolate some logic, some responsibility, and then continue
reusing it so we don't have to rewrite it over and over again.
That's the exact same benefit that components give us, but on a visual scale, we can now reuse this
logic, this idea of a header and a paragraph, and this collection of links, etc. over and over again.
Of course, this is not really a practical example because we probably don't want this, but you can
probably see how it would be applicable to something like a style button or a navigation menu.
A component allows us to isolate just this chunk, this piece of the user interface and use it as often
as we need it.
And as I also mentioned, there is room for some degree of flexibility.
So I know that the syntax is a little bit weird here, but you'll notice we have the string here.
Welcome to your Vue.js app.
And as you might guess, this is the actual string that is becoming the header that we see right here
and right here.
And so for our second rendering of our second Helloworld component, we can alter this to something
else.
Like I'm happy to be learning Vue and as soon as I save this, you'll notice that the second component
right here will be render and that string.
And we'll talk more about the syntax later.
But this string is obviously becoming the header right here.
So we're sort of able to keep the logic of keeping the component just about the exact same way or in
the exact same puzzle piece as the one above for customizing one little detail of that, which is the
header.
All right.
And that's the power of components.
We can still add flexibility to each one while retaining that commonality and reusability.
All right.
A couple more things to talk about when we are discussing components.
You'll notice the syntax right here.
And I just want us to take a second to pause and reflect on it.
This is one way that we can render a component.
The way we render a component is going to be the exact same way that we render an HTML element.
We're going to start with that opening bracket, the less than sine.
Then we're going to write the component name.
Then we're going to provide any potential arguments.
We'll go more about what this exact thing here is MSG later.
But these are almost like arguments to the component.
And then we close the component with a forward slash and then the closing bracket.
And this is what's called a self-closing component tag that basically means we're able to render a component
with just a single tag.
And there are things in HTML the work the exact same way, for example, such as this image tag right
here.
HTML has the same syntax for some elements where you have an opening tag and a self-closing tag right
I do want to note that there is an alternative way to render a component and it is with an opening and
a closing tag.
So the way you do that is exactly the same way it works in HTML.
For the opening tag that begins, you simply write the opening bracket and the closing bracket without
the slash.
So it would look like this.
And if you do this, you have to provide the complementary closing tag.
And what that looks like is simply going to be another pair of brackets.
And in that pair of brackets, you put your forward slash and then the name of the component.
So what we have here on line four and let me just expand it so you can see what we have online for is
the exact same thing as we have on line three.
It's just two different syntactical options.
This is rendering the Hello World component with a self-closing tag.
This is rendering the helloworld component, but starting it off right here with the kind of beginning
tag and closing it right here with the.
Closing time.
Now, obviously, the next question you have is when might we want to use each one?
Well, obviously, if it works by itself with a self-closing tag, you should prefer the self-closing
tag because it's lighter and leaner and requires less code.
Right.
But there are certain situations where we can put things inside the opening and closing component tags
the exact same way we can in HTML, and that will have significance to what is rendered onto the screen.
We're going to talk more about those scenarios later in the course.
But just realize that there are two syntactical ways to render a component.
What we have on line three is option number one.
And what we have right now in lines four through six is option number two.
And we'll talk more about when we use this case later in the course.
Just realize technically that is a possibility.
All right.
So with that, we can remove our second rendered helloworld component, bring everything back to its
starting state.
And that's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.